README.md, before:

# CSCI4100 Group Project

Group members (3-5) (no Student IDs, only names and github usernames):

1. Alexander Giannoulis (Alex-Giannoulis)

2. Sejal Shingal (Sejal1109)

3. Ebubechukwu Okeke (ebube52)

4. David Dickson (David-A-DavidD)

5. Bence Takacs (BenceTakacs15)

## Overview
This group project is designed for you to demonstrate the skills that you have learned in this course.  The final project that you submit in the last week of classes will be a completed mobile application.  Non-functional requirements, especially those associated with production-readiness, will be considered extremely important when marking this project.  You are expected to work in a group of three to five students when completing this project.  Students are not permitted to work alone on the project, as this eliminates one of the learning objectives of this assessment. 

_**Note:**  Any projects from individual students will not be accepted, except if special permission has been given by the instructor in advance._

## Detailed Instructions

### Choosing a Topic

The project topic is, for the most part, up to you.  Therefore, ensure that you choose a project topic that lets you demonstrate the skills learned in this course.  Consideration will be given to projects whose functionality is rather different from sample applications and those developed in assignments in this course.  When evaluating your project, I will consider this as requiring extra work.  More work done often equates to a higher grade.

It is acceptable if you want to do a project related to industry.  If someone you know wants a web application developed, and it lets you demonstrate the skills you’ve learned in this course, then you can use it for your project (even if you plan to sell that web application when you are finished).  Please keep in mind that nothing your prospective buyer says or does will affect the due date or expectations that I have for this project.  No matter what happens, this project is due when it is due, my expectations will be based on the content of this course, and I will expect a certain degree of professionalism and production-readiness.  Anything outside of the scope of this course will likely not earn you much, in terms of marks.  Proceed with caution.

### Basic Requirements

It is your job to incorporate as many course concepts into your project as possible.  At a minimum, your project must include the following:
- Dialogs and pickers
- Multiple screens and navigation
- Snack bars
- Notifications
- Local storage (SQLite)
- Cloud storage (Firestore or other)
- HTTP requests
- Data tables
- Charts
- Maps
- Geolocation
- Geocoding
- Internationalization

The actual size of the project (in terms of the number of screens, number of use cases, or amount of code) will differ from group to group.  Ultimately, the factor being considered is how much work appears to have gone into the project.  Larger groups will be expected to do proportionally more work.
If you incorporate concepts outside of this course (e.g. game engines, 3D graphics, sound) you will get credit, but in the subjective part of the evaluation only.  Thus, ensure that you meet the minimum requirements, outlined above, first.

### Game Development Alternative

Students who want to create a mobile game have the option to do so, but this topic won’t be covered until near the end of the course.  Therefore, it is expected that this option will require significant self-learning to get a head start before the main lectures/examples covering game development.  The objective requirements, listed above, will be relaxed quite a bit for groups developing a game, but the expectations are just as high.  If you wish to pursue this option, please contact the instructor so that we can work out a set of expectations for the major project.

### Evaluation
When evaluating this project, the instructor and the TAs will attempt to give a metric to the amount of work involved, considering several important factors (design, cleanliness of code, code comments, variable/function naming, security checks, error checking, usability/user-friendliness/aesthetic, accessibility, and performance).  This metric will be affected by the size of your group (i.e. what will be evaluated is the average work done per group member).

The marking will occur in two phases.  The idea behind these phases is that your project should improve over time, so that the final product is comprehensive, professional, and production-ready.  It is hoped that your project will make a great portfolio item for when you apply for jobs.  The phased marking should also prevent groups from waiting until just a few days before the due date before starting their project.

### Formative Assessment
The first phase of marking will take place sometime during week 10, meaning that you will need to commit the first part of your project by the end of week 9.  This will evaluate whether or not you have included the topics from the first 9 weeks of the course, which will be mostly objective, but will also include a small subjective mark describing the work done, the user interface design, and the code/design quality.  A rubric is listed below, so you can verify in advance which topics will be included.  The purpose of the pre-evaluation is to give you an idea of the quality of your project before the end of the term, so that you can make any adjustments necessary to get the grade you want.  This evaluation will be worth 10% of your final grade. Unless there is a significant issue of group equity, which should be noted in your README.md, all group members will receive the same grade for this evaluation.

#### Functional requirements (7 marks total)

Max Score | Requirement
--------- | ----------- 
1.50 | Multiple screens/navigation
1.00 | Dialogs and pickers
1.00 | Notifications
0.50 | Snackbars
1.50 | Local storage
1.50 | Cloud storage

#### Non-functional requirements (3 marks total)

Max Score | Requirement
--------- | ----------- 
1.00 | Amount of work done
1.00 | User interface design/usability
1.00 | Code and design quality

### Summative Assessment

The final phase of marking will be carried out at the end of the course.  This evaluation will be carried out more strictly, with higher expectations. In addition to your fully developed application, you will need to submit a technical report as a group effort, and each member will need to submit a ~5 minute demonstration video presentation of the app individually. This evaluation will be worth 50% of your final grade, divided into 30% (mobile application), 10% (group report), and 10% (individual demo). Students who do not submit any individual demo will receive a 0 for all parts of the summative assessment.

#### Functional requirements (5 marks total)

Max Score | Requirement
--------- | ----------- 
0.50 | multiple screens and navigation
0.25 | dialogs and pickers
0.50 | snackbars and notifications
0.75 | local storage
0.75 | cloud storage
0.50 | data tables and charts
0.50 | maps
0.50 | geolocation
0.25 | geocoding
0.50 | internationalization

#### Non-functional requirements (25 marks total)

Max Score | Requirement
--------- | ----------- 
5.00 | code and design quality
5.00 | user interface design and usability
15.00 | amount of work done

#### Technical Report (10 marks total)

Max Score | Requirement
--------- | ----------- 
1.00 | overview of project
1.00 | list of group members and their contributions
2.00 | code design (e.g. UML)
2.00 | user's guide (for non-developers)
2.00 | list of functional requirements and how/where they are used
2.00 | writing quality

#### Individual Demo (10 marks total)

Max Score | Requirement
--------- | ----------- 
5.00 | demonstration of application
5.00 | explanation and presentation of individual contribution to the project

## How to Submit
The project starter is available on GitHub Classroom, which really just has this README.md, since I want you to have freedom over this project.  There won’t be any starter code, you will start from scratch.  Accept the invite link for this project on GitHub Classroom, and use the new repository generated to store your project files.  This is setup as a group project, so one person can sign up, and others group members can also contribute to the project in that new repository.  

The markers will use this repository to download the latest version of your project, along with other information (e.g. commit logs) available through Git, when they want to mark the project.

_**Note:**  Only one of the group members will accept the GitHub Classroom invitation.  It is recommended that every member of the team verify the final repository on GitHub on submission day, so that everybody can be sure that the correct files were submitted and on time.  You should also clone the latest version into a fresh directory, and run it locally on your machine to ensure that it works without any unusual configuration._

_**Note:**  Work equity will be evaluated using the Git commit logs for your project.  If you decide to work together which results in a misrepresentation of work equity in the commit logs, be sure to mention this in your `README.md`. The instructor will handle all issues of uneven distribution of work on a case by case basis, which may involve adjustments to project grades as needed._

To submit this project, please push all your work to your repository, and add the names of all group members names (but not their SIDs) and their corresponding GitHub usernames (so we can tell who made which commits) to the `README.md` file (at the top).

_**Note:**  Any instances of plagiarism will result in the student(s) receiving a mark of zero for the project, and further disciplinary action will be taken.  Plagiarism includes, but is not limited to:_
- Copying of (any amount of) work from the Internet, without proper citation
- Submitting a body of work, cited or not, that is primarily not your own work
- Copying of (any amount of) work from another student, past or present, without proper citation
- Allowing your own work to be copied by a fellow student

## Getting Help
If you run into difficulty, you may wish to check out some of the following resources:

- https://api.flutter.dev/  - The standard documentation for Flutter, all classes and methods.
- https://dart.dev/tutorials - A series of tutorials for the Dart programming language, focusing entirely on the features of Dart.
- https://flutter.dev/docs/reference/tutorials - A series of tutorials for the Flutter platform, focusing mainly on the widgets and API.
- https://flutter.dev/docs/codelabs - A series of deep-dive, more comprehensive, tutorials to learn more about the Flutter platform.
- https://flutter.dev/docs/cookbook - A set of recipes for commonly used features of Flutter.
- https://github.com/flutter/samples/ - A repository containing some completed Flutter applications.
- http://stackoverflow.com/ - A forum for asking questions about programming.  I bet you know this one already!

Of course, you can always ask us for help!  However, learning how to find the answers out for yourself is not only more satisfying, but results in greater learning as well.

## How to Submit
Create your flutter project, and copy it into this folder, commit, and then push your code to this repository to submit your major group project.

Commit message:

Updated ReadMe with test account details

README.md, after:

# CSCI4100 Group Project
### U can create your own user or use our test account while running the app:
### Email: test@test.com
### Password: abcabc

Group members (3-5) (no Student IDs, only names and github usernames):

1. Alexander Giannoulis (Alex-Giannoulis)

2. Sejal Shingal (Sejal1109)

3. Ebubechukwu Okeke (ebube52)

4. David Dickson (David-A-DavidD)

5. Bence Takacs (BenceTakacs15)

## Overview
This group project is designed for you to demonstrate the skills that you have learned in this course.  The final project that you submit in the last week of classes will be a completed mobile application.  Non-functional requirements, especially those associated with production-readiness, will be considered extremely important when marking this project.  You are expected to work in a group of three to five students when completing this project.  Students are not permitted to work alone on the project, as this eliminates one of the learning objectives of this assessment. 

_**Note:**  Any projects from individual students will not be accepted, except if special permission has been given by the instructor in advance._

## Detailed Instructions

### Choosing a Topic

The project topic is, for the most part, up to you.  Therefore, ensure that you choose a project topic that lets you demonstrate the skills learned in this course.  Consideration will be given to projects whose functionality is rather different from sample applications and those developed in assignments in this course.  When evaluating your project, I will consider this as requiring extra work.  More work done often equates to a higher grade.

It is acceptable if you want to do a project related to industry.  If someone you know wants a web application developed, and it lets you demonstrate the skills you’ve learned in this course, then you can use it for your project (even if you plan to sell that web application when you are finished).  Please keep in mind that nothing your prospective buyer says or does will affect the due date or expectations that I have for this project.  No matter what happens, this project is due when it is due, my expectations will be based on the content of this course, and I will expect a certain degree of professionalism and production-readiness.  Anything outside of the scope of this course will likely not earn you much, in terms of marks.  Proceed with caution.

### Basic Requirements

It is your job to incorporate as many course concepts into your project as possible.  At a minimum, your project must include the following:
- Dialogs and pickers
- Multiple screens and navigation
- Snack bars
- Notifications
- Local storage (SQLite)
- Cloud storage (Firestore or other)
- HTTP requests
- Data tables
- Charts
- Maps
- Geolocation
- Geocoding
- Internationalization

The actual size of the project (in terms of the number of screens, number of use cases, or amount of code) will differ from group to group.  Ultimately, the factor being considered is how much work appears to have gone into the project.  Larger groups will be expected to do proportionally more work.
If you incorporate concepts outside of this course (e.g. game engines, 3D graphics, sound) you will get credit, but in the subjective part of the evaluation only.  Thus, ensure that you meet the minimum requirements, outlined above, first.

### Game Development Alternative

Students who want to create a mobile game have the option to do so, but this topic won’t be covered until near the end of the course.  Therefore, it is expected that this option will require significant self-learning to get a head start before the main lectures/examples covering game development.  The objective requirements, listed above, will be relaxed quite a bit for groups developing a game, but the expectations are just as high.  If you wish to pursue this option, please contact the instructor so that we can work out a set of expectations for the major project.

### Evaluation
When evaluating this project, the instructor and the TAs will attempt to give a metric to the amount of work involved, considering several important factors (design, cleanliness of code, code comments, variable/function naming, security checks, error checking, usability/user-friendliness/aesthetic, accessibility, and performance).  This metric will be affected by the size of your group (i.e. what will be evaluated is the average work done per group member).

The marking will occur in two phases.  The idea behind these phases is that your project should improve over time, so that the final product is comprehensive, professional, and production-ready.  It is hoped that your project will make a great portfolio item for when you apply for jobs.  The phased marking should also prevent groups from waiting until just a few days before the due date before starting their project.

### Formative Assessment
The first phase of marking will take place sometime during week 10, meaning that you will need to commit the first part of your project by the end of week 9.  This will evaluate whether or not you have included the topics from the first 9 weeks of the course, which will be mostly objective, but will also include a small subjective mark describing the work done, the user interface design, and the code/design quality.  A rubric is listed below, so you can verify in advance which topics will be included.  The purpose of the pre-evaluation is to give you an idea of the quality of your project before the end of the term, so that you can make any adjustments necessary to get the grade you want.  This evaluation will be worth 10% of your final grade. Unless there is a significant issue of group equity, which should be noted in your README.md, all group members will receive the same grade for this evaluation.

#### Functional requirements (7 marks total)

Max Score | Requirement
--------- | ----------- 
1.50 | Multiple screens/navigation
1.00 | Dialogs and pickers
1.00 | Notifications
0.50 | Snackbars
1.50 | Local storage
1.50 | Cloud storage

#### Non-functional requirements (3 marks total)

Max Score | Requirement
--------- | ----------- 
1.00 | Amount of work done
1.00 | User interface design/usability
1.00 | Code and design quality

### Summative Assessment

The final phase of marking will be carried out at the end of the course.  This evaluation will be carried out more strictly, with higher expectations. In addition to your fully developed application, you will need to submit a technical report as a group effort, and each member will need to submit a ~5 minute demonstration video presentation of the app individually. This evaluation will be worth 50% of your final grade, divided into 30% (mobile application), 10% (group report), and 10% (individual demo). Students who do not submit any individual demo will receive a 0 for all parts of the summative assessment.

#### Functional requirements (5 marks total)

Max Score | Requirement
--------- | ----------- 
0.50 | multiple screens and navigation
0.25 | dialogs and pickers
0.50 | snackbars and notifications
0.75 | local storage
0.75 | cloud storage
0.50 | data tables and charts
0.50 | maps
0.50 | geolocation
0.25 | geocoding
0.50 | internationalization

#### Non-functional requirements (25 marks total)

Max Score | Requirement
--------- | ----------- 
5.00 | code and design quality
5.00 | user interface design and usability
15.00 | amount of work done

#### Technical Report (10 marks total)

Max Score | Requirement
--------- | ----------- 
1.00 | overview of project
1.00 | list of group members and their contributions
2.00 | code design (e.g. UML)
2.00 | user's guide (for non-developers)
2.00 | list of functional requirements and how/where they are used
2.00 | writing quality

#### Individual Demo (10 marks total)

Max Score | Requirement
--------- | ----------- 
5.00 | demonstration of application
5.00 | explanation and presentation of individual contribution to the project

## How to Submit
The project starter is available on GitHub Classroom, which really just has this README.md, since I want you to have freedom over this project.  There won’t be any starter code, you will start from scratch.  Accept the invite link for this project on GitHub Classroom, and use the new repository generated to store your project files.  This is setup as a group project, so one person can sign up, and others group members can also contribute to the project in that new repository.  

The markers will use this repository to download the latest version of your project, along with other information (e.g. commit logs) available through Git, when they want to mark the project.

_**Note:**  Only one of the group members will accept the GitHub Classroom invitation.  It is recommended that every member of the team verify the final repository on GitHub on submission day, so that everybody can be sure that the correct files were submitted and on time.  You should also clone the latest version into a fresh directory, and run it locally on your machine to ensure that it works without any unusual configuration._

_**Note:**  Work equity will be evaluated using the Git commit logs for your project.  If you decide to work together which results in a misrepresentation of work equity in the commit logs, be sure to mention this in your `README.md`. The instructor will handle all issues of uneven distribution of work on a case by case basis, which may involve adjustments to project grades as needed._

To submit this project, please push all your work to your repository, and add the names of all group members names (but not their SIDs) and their corresponding GitHub usernames (so we can tell who made which commits) to the `README.md` file (at the top).

_**Note:**  Any instances of plagiarism will result in the student(s) receiving a mark of zero for the project, and further disciplinary action will be taken.  Plagiarism includes, but is not limited to:_
- Copying of (any amount of) work from the Internet, without proper citation
- Submitting a body of work, cited or not, that is primarily not your own work
- Copying of (any amount of) work from another student, past or present, without proper citation
- Allowing your own work to be copied by a fellow student

## Getting Help
If you run into difficulty, you may wish to check out some of the following resources:

- https://api.flutter.dev/  - The standard documentation for Flutter, all classes and methods.
- https://dart.dev/tutorials - A series of tutorials for the Dart programming language, focusing entirely on the features of Dart.
- https://flutter.dev/docs/reference/tutorials - A series of tutorials for the Flutter platform, focusing mainly on the widgets and API.
- https://flutter.dev/docs/codelabs - A series of deep-dive, more comprehensive, tutorials to learn more about the Flutter platform.
- https://flutter.dev/docs/cookbook - A set of recipes for commonly used features of Flutter.
- https://github.com/flutter/samples/ - A repository containing some completed Flutter applications.
- http://stackoverflow.com/ - A forum for asking questions about programming.  I bet you know this one already!

Of course, you can always ask us for help!  However, learning how to find the answers out for yourself is not only more satisfying, but results in greater learning as well.

## How to Submit
Create your flutter project, and copy it into this folder, commit, and then push your code to this repository to submit your major group project.
